jordandominguez.github.io
=========================
This visualization can be viewed at jordandominguez.github.io/Visualization

The goal of this project was to provide an interesting visualization of Olympic data from 2000-2012. When the page first loads, the main visualization displays a map of the world with countries for which Olympic data is available for the year 2000 highlighted in blue. The user can change the year by selecting a new year in the drop-down menu in the top left-hand corner. By observing how the map changes from year to year, one interesting trend that emerges is the difference in participation between the Summer and Winter Olympics. While data from years when there were Summer Olympics (2000,2004,2008,2012) is spread out all around the world, European nations clearly dominate the Winter Olympics (with the exception of the United States, Australia, Canada, and China). When the user clicks on a country for which data is available, the map zooms in to that country and displays the number of gold, silver, and bronze medals that year. A side visualization also appears that displays the number of medals won for each sport and what proportion of those medals were gold, silver, and bronze using a stacked bar chart. Finally, a line graph appears underneat the map tracking the number of gold, silver, and bronze medals won by that country across the years for which data is available. If given more time, there are a few improvements that could be made to this visualization. First, while the visualization conveys information effectively, it is not particularly aesthetically pleasing. Setting up a full user interface that is easier on the eye would augment the effectiveness of the visualization. The visualization could also benefit from additional labels and legends. Right now, the distinction between gold, silver, and bronze medals is shown by the color of the lines/bars (gold lines indicate gold medals, etc.), but it would perhaps be clearer if a legend was added. 

Note : your browser must be zoomed at 100% in order to properly display the visualization
